Install
python3 --version
Python 3.10 or newer; no third-party dependencies.

Start
python3 document_room.py add policy.md --tag legal --tag policy
Prints metadata for the sample policy and saves the local index.

Smoke Test
python3 document_room.py search --tag legal
Returns the policy metadata in a JSON array.
python3 document_room.py archive meeting.txt
Marks a registered document archived (index only; --restore marks it active); search/export accept --archive-state all|active|archived, defaulting to all.
python3 document_room.py category policy.md --value "Legal Team"
Assigns a single category to a registered document (index only; an empty value marks it uncategorized); search/export accept --category to filter, and omitting it keeps every category.
python3 document_room.py note policy.md --value "v2 draft"
Attaches a free-form version note to a registered document (index only; a blank value clears it); export --with-version-notes adds each document's note to the manifest.
python3 document_room.py remove meeting.txt --detach
Unregisters one document's metadata record by exact index key (index only; the file is never touched); default mode is blocked while another record references it, and --detach clears those references first.
python3 document_room.py tags policy.md meeting.txt --add legal --add release --remove draft
Batch-edits stored tags by exact index key (index only; files are never read): repeatable --add/--remove are trimmed and lowercased like add tags, the result is sorted and de-duplicated, overlap after normalization or any unregistered path fails the whole batch, printing updated full records and unchanged paths; at least one path is required.
python3 document_room.py relocate meeting.txt docs/meeting.txt
Moves a registration from the old exact index key to the new file's canonical root-relative path after you move the file yourself (index only; the file must exist inside the root with the same bytes and SHA-256); all references, including self-references, are rewritten to the new key, printing before, after and updated.
python3 document_room.py relocate-batch --from moves.json
Moves several registrations at once from a UTF-8 JSON array of {"source", "destination"} objects (exactly those two string fields each); destination keys duplicate, self or occupied by a non-moving record fail the batch, while keys held by another batch source allow swaps and cycles; all references are remapped once preserving order, duplicates, self-references and cycles, printing moved (full before/after pairs) and updated (non-moved records with changed references).
python3 document_room.py export --release "Q4 Launch"
Checks the registered files and reports ready, changed, missing, unsafe or unreadable; complete is true only when every listed document is ready.
python3 document_room.py export --release "Q4 Launch" --with-references --with-blockers
Adds a blockers array (requires --with-references): only blocked starting documents appear, each listing itself and every reachable non-ready document with status, minimum reference-edge distance and one lexicographically-smallest shortest route; combines with --with-origins and --with-version-notes.
python3 document_room.py impact meeting.txt
Lists registered documents that reference the target, each with its minimum reference-edge distance; --transitive also includes indirect referrers, and --with-routes adds one shortest reference chain per document.
python3 document_room.py duplicates --tag release
Groups registrations with equal stored bytes and SHA-256 into duplicate groups; --tag (repeatable) and --text filter like search and any member match returns the whole group.
python3 document_room.py compare --before old.json --after new.json
Diffs two exported manifest snapshots into added, removed, changed and unchanged documents without touching the index or files; --detect-relocations additionally merges leftover pairs with identical stored bytes and SHA-256 (unique on both sides) into a relocated array, and --compare-version-notes also diffs the version_note field (exact string comparison, missing equals empty, non-string notes fail with exit 2).
python3 document_room.py import --from records.json
Merges a UTF-8 JSON object of path-keyed records into the index (metadata only; files are not read), reporting added and unchanged paths; conflicting or invalid records fail the whole batch with exit 2.
python3 document_room.py import --preview --from records.json
Previews an import without writing: prints can_import plus added, unchanged and conflicts (each conflict keeps both full records and the sorted differing top-level fields); conflicts still exit 0, malformed input, dangling references or corrupt JSON/UTF-8 exit 2, and nothing is created or modified.
python3 -B -m unittest -v
